# Wifi-fingerprinting

Wi-Fi fingerprinting is one of the indoor localization techniques which uses the intensity of the Received Signal Strength (RSS) from the wireless access points distributed around the building as the measurement for determining the receiver's position. In the past, various machine learning algorithms have been used to resolve the indoor positioning problem which has resulted in different accuracies and processing time. This dissertation presents a localization model employing K- Nearest Neighbours (KNN) regression and K-means clustering to give a much better accuracy of the user location.

After implementing the hybrid model, the model is experimented with a public database that was collected at Jaume I University in Spain. The results show that the hybrid model has outperformed the individual KNN model by 120%, achieving the position accuracy of 5 meters in contrast to the 11 meters accuracy achieved by the solo KNN model deployed with an optimal value of k. While the KNN model improves the performance by 90% when the value of k is optimised from k=300 to k=5, the KNN and k-means hybrid algorithm further enhances the localization accuracy.

The position of the targets were determined by first predicting the cluster it belongs to and then locating the coordinates by applying KNN only to the predicted cluster. This indicates that the error difference increases gradually with an increase in the number of positions that have been entered in the database. Thus segregating them into groups or clusters would result in a decrease in error. In this dissertation we use the Cumulative Distribution Function (CDF) plots for comparing the accuracy of these models.
